{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12620\viewh11880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Larry Abril\
3 March 2015\
SDI\
Problem Solving & Critical Thinking\
\
A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed.\
	\
1- In this situation the issue is that the man needs to cross the river and has room available for himself and one other item. The problem is that he cannot leave the cat with the parrot and/or the parrot with the bag of seed because the can eat each other. The insight that I can offer that is not visible from the word problem is that you can take an item back and front as many times as you want but, with the goal in mind. The goal is that at the end, all three item cross the river without any of them eating each other.\
\
2- The constrains are that the cat can eat the parrot and the parrot can eat the bag of seed if they are alone. Therefore, the man has to be present to make sure they not eat each other. (that is the sub-goal) \
\
3- The man can cross the river back and front as many times as need it in order to make sure the cat, parrot and see of bag are safe.\
\
4- That solution meets the goal.\
\
5- The man get into the boat with the parrot. He cross the river and leave the parrot in te other side. The man comes back alone. He grabs the bag of seed and crossed the river, this time he drops the bag of seed but pick up the parrot and bring it back with him, leaving the bag of seed by itself. Once he is bak he drops the parrot and grabs the cat. He cross the river and leave the cat with the bag of see. Then the man comes back alone to get the parrot. Finally the man grabs the parrot and cross the river to meet his goal. All of the items made it safe. \
\
I try the example few times but had to know how to accommodate the items in order for them to be safe.\
\
\
\
Socks i the Dark.\
\
1- In this situation you are in the darkness and have to match at least one pair of sock and at least one pair of sock with the same color. you are choosing from 20 pair of socks: 5 pairs of blacks, 3 pairs of brown and 2 pairs of white. A insight that I can offer that is not visible in the problem is that you can keep getting socks until you feel you fill the requirements that are to match at least one pair of sock and at least one pair of sock with the same color.\
\
2- The constrains are that it is dark and that you have a variety of socks. Therefore you have to use your logic to come with a formula to be able to grab the pairs required.\
\
3- Even though is dark, keep grabbing sock because eventually you will grab the ones you need.\
\
4- The solution meets the goal but the method is different for both of the problem.\
\
5- To match at least one matching pair you will need to grab at least four sock because it is only 3 different type of socks therefore in the four sock you will match a pair no matter what. That is if not matched before that.\
     To match a pair of each color you will need to get at least 18 socks because there are 20 pairs. Therefore if you are not lucky enough and are grabbing the same types of sock, eventually by sock number 18 you will run out of option and ended up grabbing each of the same color.\
\
\
Predicting Fingers.\
\
1-  You need to count using only your left hand and following this order: \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
thumb 1, the first finger 2, middle finder 3, ring finger 4, and little finger 5. Then reverses direction, calling the ring finger 6, middle finger 7, first finger 8 and thumb 9, after which she calls her first finger 10 and so on. \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
2- The constraints are that you only can use one hand but still have to get to 10, 100 and 1000 to see in which finger will stop.\
\
3- The possible solution is to follow the pattern when counting the numbers therefore have an idea in which finger will stop.\
\
4- The potential solution meets the goal but all three numbers stop in different fingers.\
\
5- You start counting using your left hand by pointing your t\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
humb 1, the first finger 2, middle finder 3, ring finger 4, and little finger 5. Then reverses direction, calling the ring finger 6, middle finger 7, first finger 8 and thumb 9, after which she calls her first finger 10 and so on. Counting until 10 the finger stopped in the first finger. Following the pattern counting until 100 the finger stopped in the ring finger, but counting until 10000 the finger stopped again in the first finger. There only two choice the first and the ring fingers and following the pattern, every 100 change finger. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 }